---
title: Numbers 20
date: 2025-02-08 07:00:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [water-from-the-rock, edom, aron's-death]
---

## WHEN and WHERE:
These events occurred at the tail end of the Israelites’ 40 years of wandering in the wilderness. 

The Israelites were in the wilderness from approximately 1490-1450 B.C. 

The Israelites were camped in the wilderness of Zin at Kadesh (20:1):

Later, the Israelites went from Kadesh to Mount Hor which was on the border of Edom (20:22).  

**CHARACTERS**: 
- Moses – Moses was selected by God to lead the Israelites to the land of Canaan. 
-Aaron – Moses’ brother and the High Priest of Israel. 
-Miriam – The sister of Moses and Aaron.
- Israelites (Hebrews) – The descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They had grown into a large nation in only a few centuries. 
- King of Edom – He refused to let the Israelites travel through his land. His people were relatives of the Israelites. The Edomites descended from Esau, the brother of Jacob. 
- Eleazar – Aaron’s son who served under him as a priest in the Tabernacle. 

## Facts
- Miriam died while the Israelites were camped in the wilderness of Zin. 
- The people grumbled against Moses and Aaron because the place they camped, Kadesh, didn’t have sufficient water and it wasn’t capable of growing grain or fruit.
- Aaron and Moses went to God at the Tabernacle and He told Moses to speak to a specific rock and it would produce water for the people. 

- The two brothers gathered the people together and said to them, “Hear now, you rebels: shall we bring water for you out of this rock?” Moses hit the rock with his staff twice and water gushed out. 

- But God was displeased with Moses and Aaron’s attitude and told them, “Because you did not believe in me, to uphold me as holy in the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given them.” 

- The place became known as Meribah, because the people quarreled with God and God showed Himself to be holy. 

THE EDOMITES DENY ISRAEL’S REQUEST TO TRAVEL THROUGH THEIR LAND (20:14-21):
- Moses sent messengers to the king of Edom requesting permission to travel through his land. He promised the Israelites wouldn’t disturb Edom’s vineyards or fields and even offered to pay for the water they would drink. 

- The king of Edom refused and brought a large army to the border of his land to keep Israel out. 

THE DEATH OF AARON (20:22-29):
- When Israel came to Mount Hor, God told Aaron it was time for him to be “gathered to his people.” The Lord instructed Moses, Aaron, and Eleazar to ascend Mount Hor and Aaron was to give his priestly garments to his son. 

- The 3 men followed these instructions and, after the role of High Priest past to Eleazar, Aaron died on the top of the mountain and the entire camp of Israel mourned Aaron for 30 days.  

## Insights
- God is very compassionate regardless of our stubbornness. In previous chapters, we saw the consequences of complaining, it angered God. The Israelite still complained and had attachments with the life in Egypt. God however shows compassion and gives them water. He is so loving.
- Moses had a bad attitude towards fulfilling the instructions given. Even though he obeyed, it displeased God and for that, he was not to see the promised land. 

## Deeds
- May God give me the Grace to stay humble even when presenting my petitions and give me the right attitude to fulfil his assignment.