---
title: Numbers 32
date: 2025-02-11 20:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [jordan land]
---

# FACTS
CHARACTERS:
- Gad, Reuben, and 1/2 of Manasseh – The men from these tribes approached Moses and made a special request to be granted the land east of the Jordan River. 

- Moses – God selected Moses to lead the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt and guide them to the land of Canaan.

- Eleazar – Aaron’s son who became High Priest after his death. 

- Joshua – Moses’ long-time assistant who had been selected to take Moses’ place as the leader of Israel when he died. 

WHERE:
The Israelites were camped north of Pisgah on the plains of Moab (31:12).

_GAD, REUBEN, AND 1/2 OF MANASSEH ASK TO LIVE EAST OF JORDAN (32:1-42):_

- The people in the tribes of Reuben and Gad had a lot of livestock. When they saw that the land of Gilead and Jazer were ideal for livestock, they went to Moses and Eleazar and asked to stay on the east side of the Jordan river, rather than living in Canaan with the other tribes. 

- This request initially made Moses very angry because he assumed the men of these tribes wouldn’t help the rest of the Israelites conquer the land of Canaan. Moses compared the 3 tribes to the 10 spies who discouraged the Israelites from conquering Canaan 40 years earlier. 

- But the 3 tribes reassured Moses all their fighting men would accompany the people across the Jordan and fight with them until all the land of Canaan was conquered. This appeased Moses’ anger, and he told them they could live in the land of Gilead if they kept their promise. He charged Joshua and Eleazar with making sure they kept their word. 

- Moses gave the land of Bashan and the land of the Amorites to the people of Gad, Reuben, and the 1/2 tribe of Manasseh and they conquered the land and inhabited it. 