---
title: Numbers 21
date: 2025-02-08 07:00:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [arad,bronze_snake, moab, sihon and og]
---

## WHEN and WHERE:
These events occurred at the tail end of the Israelites’ 40 years of wandering in the wilderness. 

The Israelites were in the wilderness from approximately 1490-1450 B.C. 

The Israelites went from Mount Hor around Edom and Moab and camped at Pisgah, which was near the border of the Amorites and Moabites (21:20; 23:14).

**CHARACTERS**:
- Moses – God selected Moses to lead the Israelites from Egypt to Canaan. 
- King of Arad – He lived in the Negeb and opposed the Israelites entering Canaan. 
- Sihon – King of the Amorites. 
- Og – King of Bashan. 

## Facts
ISRAEL DEFEATS THE KING OF ARAD (21:1-3):
- The king of Arad, who lived in the Negeb, fought against Israel, and took some of them captive. 

- Israel made a vow to the Lord asking for His help. God aided them and they destroyed the cities of the king of Arad.

THE BRONZE SNAKE (21:4-9):
 - As the Israelites travelled from Mount Hor around the land of Edom, they started complaining to Moses about their food, water, and hardships in the wilderness. 

- God was angry with their ungratefulness and sent poisonous snakes into the camp. 

- The people immediately repented and asked Moses to pray to the Lord for forgiveness. God told Moses to make a snake that the Israelites could look at and be healed. 

- Moses made the snake out of bronze, put it in the camp, and all the people who were bitten looked at the snake and were healed. 

DEFEATS SIHON AND OG (21:21-35):

- Israel sent messengers to Sihon, king of the Amorites, requesting permission to pass through his land. 
- He refused their request and brought an army out to fight the Israelites. Israel defeated Sihon and took possession of all his territory. 

- King Og of Bashan brought his army to fight with the Israelites at Edrei. 
- Israel defeated Og “until he had no survivors left.”

## Insights
- Here we continue seeing the consequence of grumbling and God's compassion. 
- John 3:14-15 And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. -- Jesus is the only way to salvation.

## Deeds
I will believe no-one else but Jesus. 

