---
title: Numbers 27
date: 2025-02-11 20:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [zolephedad's daughters]
---

# FACTS
CHARACTERS:

- Moses – God selected Moses to lead the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt and guide them to the land of Canaan.

- Eleazar – The High Priest of Israel. He became High Priest after the death of his father, Aaron. 

- Joshua – Also known as Hoshea. He was Moses’ assistant and one of the 12 spies who spied out the land of Canaan (Numbers 13). God’s Spirit was with Joshua (27:18). 

_THE DAUGHTERS OF ZELOPHEHAD (27:1-11):_
- Zelophehad, a man from the tribe of Manasseh, had 5 daughters but no sons (26:33). His daughters approached Moses and Eleazar and asked to receive a portion of the Canaan land as their inheritance and to carry on their father’s name.   

- Moses consulted the Lord on the matter and God approved the request. God gave further instructions for how land was to pass down through families in the event a man had no sons.  

- If a man died without a male heir, his land was to be given to his daughters. If he had no daughters, the land went to his brother. If he had no brothers, the land was given to his closest relative. 

_JOSHUA IS CHOSEN TO REPLACE MOSES (27:12-23):_
- God told Moses to go up into the mountain and overlook the land of Canaan before he died. However, Moses was not allowed to enter Canaan because of the mistake he made at the waters of Meribah in the wilderness of Zin (20:12). 

- Moses asked God to appoint a man to lead the Israelites in his place and God appointed Joshua, Moses’ long-time assistant, to lead the people alongside Eleazar the High Priest. 

- Moses brought Joshua before all the congregation of Israel, laid his hands on him, and commissioned him as God’s appointed leader. 