---
title: Daniel Chapter 2
date: 2024-03-01 06:00:10 +0300
category: [Bible Study, Daniel]
tags: [king of kings, mighty]
---

We are still in the reign of King Nebuchadnezzar. This chapter takes us back to his reign in the second year.  

* The King had a dream which troubled him and he needed it interpreted. As it was the custom, he commanded to call the magicians, enchanters( soothsayers), sorcerers and the Chaldeans(diviners) to interpret the dream.  
* Nebuchadnezzar changed things where he demanded that they tell him the dream first before interpreting it. He also set a condition that if they failed to tell the dream, they were to be killed(cut into pieces) and their houses made dunghill(ruble).  
* The whole group of the 'wise men' failed to do as the King had requested and a decree was issued to kill all the wise men across Babylon.
* When Arioch the commander in chief got to Daniel, Daniel was curious to know why all that was happening. He said to Arioch, the king's captain, "Why is the decree so urgent and hasty from the king?" Then Arioch explained the matter to Daniel.
* Daniel approached the King and requested to be given time. Unbelievably, the King accepted the plea

So far we can see that God's favor was still with Daniel. The magicians, enchanters, sorcerers and the diviners were not given time to think of the dream. They were also hasty in saying that it was impossible to know the dream. 

* Having learnt the matter, Daniel returned to his room where he explained to his friends, Shadrach, Meshack, and Abednego.
* They went into a moment of prayer seeking the mercy of God. 
* During the night, the mystery was revealed to Daniel through a vision. He praised the Lord and prayed, _[v20] "Blessed be the name of God forever and ever! For wisdom and might are His!, [v21] He changes the times and the seasons; He removes kings and sets up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding! [v22] He reveals the deep and secret things; He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with Him! [v23] I thank You and praise You, O God of my fathers, Who has given me wisdom and might and has made known to me now what we desired of You, for You have made known to us the solution to the king's problem."_
* Daniel approached Arioch and requested him not to kill the Babylonians anymore for he could tell and interpret the King's dream.
* Arioch, the captain presented Daniel to the King.

Daniel was able to tell what dream the King had and interpreted it to him.

### The Dream

> **Daniel 2: 31-35** _[v31] You, O king, saw, and behold, [there was] a great image. This image which was mighty and of exceedingly great brightness stood before you, and the appearance of it was frightening and terrible.[v32] As for this image, its head was of fine gold, its breast and its arms of silver, its belly and its thighs of bronze, [v33] Its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay [the baked clay of the potter]. [v34] As you looked, a Stone was cut out without human hands, which smote the image on its feet of iron and [baked] clay [of the potter] and broke them to pieces. [v35] Then the iron, the [baked] clay [of the potter], the bronze, the silver, and the gold were broken and crushed together and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors, and the wind carried them away so that not a trace of them could be found. And the Stone that smote the image became a great mountain or rock and filled the whole earth._

### The Interpretation

> **Daniel 2: 37-45** _[v37] You, O king, are king of the [earthly] kings to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, the might, and the glory. [v38] And wherever the children of men dwell, and the beasts of the field, and the birds of the heavens--He has given them into your hand and has made you to rule over them all. You [king of Babylon] are the head of gold. [v39] And after you shall arise another kingdom [the Medo-Persian], inferior to you, and still a third kingdom of bronze [Greece under Alexander the Great] which shall bear rule over all the earth. [v40] And the fourth kingdom [Rome] shall be strong as iron, since iron breaks to pieces and subdues all things; and like iron which crushes, it shall break and crush all these [v41] And as you saw the feet and toes, partly of [baked] clay [of the potter] and partly of iron, it shall be a divided kingdom; but there shall be in it some of the firmness and strength of iron, just as you saw the iron mixed with miry [earthen] clay. [v42] And as the toes of the feet were partly of iron and partly of [baked] clay [of the potter], so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle and broken. [v43] And as you saw the iron mixed with miry and earthen clay, so they shall mingle themselves in the seed of men [in marriage bonds]; but they will not hold together [for two such elements or ideologies can never harmonize], even as iron does not mingle itself with clay.[v44] And in the days of these [final ten] kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed, nor shall its sovereignty be left to another people; but it shall break and crush and consume all these kingdoms and it shall stand forever. [v45] Just as you saw that the Stone was cut out of the mountain without hands and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold, the great God has made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter. The dream is certain and the interpretation of it is sure._

### Takeaway

The main takeaway from this chapter is recognizing and acknowledging the greatness of God

* Looking at the history of the Babylonians, we understand that they worshipped other gods.
* The King also believed in magic and sorcery. He often sought the wisdom of the magicians, sorcerers, and diviners.
* All other forms of power failed to help the different users achieve their missions.
* Only the true power of God is capable of anything. Daniel, through a vision empowered by God himself, was able to tell what Nebuchadnezzar had dreamt. Further, He was able to interpret it correctly signifying the true power of God.
* Eventually Nebuchadnezzar admits that there is no other true god but God of Daniel. [v47] _The king answered Daniel, Of a truth your God is the God of gods and the Lord of kings and a Revealer of secret mysteries, seeing that you could reveal this secret mystery_

In our daily lives, we normally acknowledge other forms of power and forget how capable our God can do. For instance, many are the times we fear the sorcerers and diviners. By doing so, we acknowledge that they have power over God. Instead, we should remain firm and in true faith knowing that we our father in heaven protects us through the help of his son Jesus Christ and his Holy Spirit.

We should also remain pure and not defile ourselves with things of the world. This allows the Holy Spirit to reside within us and with us. 


# END