---
title: The Power of Timing
date: 2024-02-25 09:30:00 +0300
category: [Sermons, CITAM]
tags: [timing]
preacher: Rev Murichu
---
This is a continuation of the series, "Taking New Territories". We look at the aspect of timing with regards to taking new territories.

## Sermon

In this episode, we are guided by the story of Esther. Below is a background review of the story.

The book of Esther begins by giving us a story of Queen Vashti and how she was deposed from her position.

### Esther chapter 1

* There was a banquet (party) that lasted a couple of days.
* Under the influence of Wine, King Xerxes ordered that Queen Vashti be brought to him in her royal crown.
* The Queen was also in high spirits and she disobeyed and refused to go.
* The King, furious and burned with anger, sought the counsel of experts in matters of law and justice.
* As per the law, her sin was unforgiveable and a decree was issued that the Queen was not to enter the presence of King Xerxes again.

Following the dramatic saga, the position of Queen Vashti was up for grabs. Let us see how this unfolded.

* The Kings attendants proposed that a search be made for beautiful young virgins for whom a Queen would be selected.
* Among them was Esther(Hadassah).
* She was an orphan and was raised by Mordecai (cousin).
* She was beautiful and had a lovely figure.
* Seeing her beauty(and God's will), Hegai who was in-charge of the harem was pleased by her and favored her by providing her with beauty treatments and special food.
* Also, Esther was assigned to seven female attendants who moved her to the best place in the harem.

Before a young woman's turn came to be presented to the King, it was required that a beauty treatment be offered for twelve months. i.e six months with oil of myrrh and six months with perfumes and cosmetics. Esther underwent through the treatment until it was her turn.

* King Xerxes was attracted to Esther more than any other young virgin.
* She won his favor and approval.
* A royal crown was placed on her head and made Queen to replace Vashti.

Here, there are several aspects of time that we can learn with relation to taking new territories. These are;

1. Preparation time
2. Presentation time
3. Prime time

#### Preparation time

Before embarking on any action, process or even journey, it is imperative for one to prepare adequately. This is not different when it comes to taking new territories.  
After visualizing our destined territory, we need to prepare well so as to declare a successful mission.  
In the story above, Esther had to go through all the stages of the required treatment in preparation for the main day which is described below.

#### Presentation time

Preparation is only the pre-requisite. Another action must follow.  
The action that followed after Esther's preparation was presentation before the King.  
In our quest of taking new territories, presentation time is the actual time when we step on the territory itself.  
This might not be a straight forward thing as it be coupled with some resistance. However, being well prepared ushers us into the new territory with all that is required and a win is guaranteed - Esther won.

#### Prime time

Now this defines the fruition period where we get to enjoy the benefits of the new territory. However, it is key to note that new territories come also with new challenges. The encouragement for this is that, during the preparation time, God fashions us to handle everything and also the Holy Spirit is always in us, and with us, to help us maneuver.  
Reading further the story of Queen Esther, we see the benefits she had as a queen and the challenges as well. Some of them are;

* Challenge: She faced a great task of pleading with the King to overturn a ruling by Haman that would see all the Jews destroyed.
* Benefit: She had favor in the eyes of the King and all her petitions were listened to and effected immediately.

This is teaching translates to our lives as well. When we need to get to higher levels and get new blessings. These are territories which we need to consider the above aspects of time.