---
title: Daniel Chapter 1
date: 2024-02-29 05:30:01 +0300
category: [Bible Study, Daniel]
tags: [purity, favor, knowledge, understanding]
---
## Summary

This Chapter takes us back to the reigns of King Jehoiakim of Judah and King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. Jerusalem was captured by the Babylonians with all its people.  
King Nebuchadnezzar ordered to have young men, without any physical defect, handsome, showing aptitude for every kind of learning, well informed, quick to understand, and qualified to work in the palace. Among those submitted were; Daniel(Belteshazzar), Hananiah(Shadrach), Mishael(Meshach), Azariah(Abednego).  
They were to be taught the language and Babylonian literature. They were also offered special food and wine from the King's table.  
Daniel chose not to defile himself with the royal food and he requested the food to be withdrawn and replaced with just vegetables and water.  
God had caused the official to show favor to Daniel and his pleas were heard. Even without taking the special feeding program, Daniel(Belteshazzar), Hananiah(Shadrach), Mishael(Meshach), Azariah(Abednego) looked healthier and better nourished than any other young men.  
God gave the four young men knowledge and understanding of all kinds of literature and learnings.  
Daniel outshone everyone and was presented to the King where he remained until the first year of the reign of King Cyrus.

## Takeaway

* Daniel chose to remain pure by not defiling themselves with the royal food and wine
* God caused the officials to show them favor.
* God gave them knowledge and understanding of all manner.

This can also be effective in our lives if we choose to follow Daniel's decisions. What does it cost to remain pure? Doesn't all the desires we have glorify the world? It is easy to do the right thing and to bring order.
