---
title: EXODUS 35
date: 2025-01-16 06:50:00 +0300
category: [CBR,Exodus]
tags: sabbath, freewill_offerings, bezalel_and_oholiab
author: Hiira
---

## Summary - A Quick Overview  

### FACTS

WHEN:

God delivered the Israelites from slavery in approximately 1491 B.C.

Exodus 35 occurred shortly after God spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, which would place these events approximately 4-6 months after the Hebrews left Egypt (19:1; 32:34). 

CHARACTERS:

Moses – Moses was selected by God to lead the Israelites to Canaan. God spoke directly to Moses and Moses communicated God’s words to the people. 

Israelites (Hebrews) – The descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God granted them freedom after several hundred years in slavery in Egypt. 

Bezalel and Oholiab – Two men specially gifted with the Spirit of God to help in the construction of the Tabernacles and the holy items within it. 

WHERE:

Moses and the Israelites were camped at Mount Sinai but were preparing to depart per God’s instructions.

OUTLINE:

ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR KEEPING THE SABBATH (35:1-3):

Moses gathered all the Israelites to him and shared the laws of the Lord he received on the top of Mount Sinai.

In regards to the Sabbath, the Israelites were to work 6 days and rest on the 7th day. 

They were not even to kindle a fire in the home on the Sabbath. 

Anyone caught breaking the Sabbath was to be put to death. 

CONTRIBUTION FOR THE TABERNACLE (35:4-29):

Moses invited anyone who had a generous heart to contribute gold, silver, bronze, blue and purple and scarlet yarn, fine twined linen, goats’ hair, ram skins, acacia wood, oil, spices, onyx stones, or precious stones to be part of the Lord’s Tabernacle. 

He also invited any craftsman among the people to volunteer their skills to build parts of the Tabernacle.

Verses 11-19 list all the important pieces of the Tabernacle as God described them to Moses on Mount Sinai. 

The people gave very generously, both of their possessions and their talents. 

BEZALEL AND OHOLIAB (35:30-35):

God gifted two men special skill, intelligence, and craftsmanship to work on the Tabernacle. 

Bezalel and Oholiab were empowered by the Spirit of God to “devise artistic designs, to work in gold and silver and bronze, in cutting stones for setting, and in carving wood, for work in every skilled craft.”

The men were also inspired to teach others how to create the necessary articles of the Tabernacle. 

### INSIGHT(S)

- The Israelites were not compelled to give. The instructions from God were very clear, those who were willing. This teaches us about giving, either to the Lord or to fellow believers. It should come out from our hearts.

- God appointed Bezalel and Oholiab and he filled them with the Spirit of God, wisdom, understanding, knowledge and all kind of skills to work for him. This shows that God is the ultimate SOURCE of all these and is able to effect whomever is willing to work for him. He also put in them the ability to teach others. God has given us wisdom and favor in our distinct fields and we should use this wisdom to work for him. We should also be willing to teach others.

### DEED(s)

1. Obey the Sabbath and keep it Holy
2. Practice Freewill giving.
3. Use your skills for the Lord.
4. Teach others what God has given you ability to do.