---
title: LEVITICUS 3 THE FELLOWSHIP OFFERING
date: 2025-01-24 13:40:00 +0300
category: [CBR,Leviticus]
tags: fellowship_offering
---

- **DEFINITIONS:**
	- **Long Lobe of the Liver** – The liver in humans and animals is made up of lobes. For example, a cow's liver has 4 lobes (right, left, caudate, and quadrate). The number of lobes depends on the animal. 
  
### Facts
    
- PEACE OFFERINGS MADE WITH ANIMALS FROM THE HERD (3:1-5):
     - In the previous chapters we discussed burnt offerings and grain offerings, in Leviticus 3 we are introduced to peace offerings.
    - If an Israelite man wanted to offer a peace offering using an animal from his herd (cattle), he was to bring a male or female without blemish to the Tabernacle. He was then to lay his hand on the animal’s head before killing it.
    
    - The priests were to throw the animal’s blood against the bronze altar.
        
    - From the peace offering, the “fat covering the internal organs and all the fat that is on the internal organs, and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the long lobe of the liver” were to be burnt up on the bronze altar as a food offering to God.
        
	1. PEACE OFFERINGS MADE WITH LAMBS (3:6-11):
	    
	    - If an Israelites man brought a lamb to be sacrificed as a peace offering, the same procedures were to be followed, with the exception that slightly different portions were to be burnt on the altar.
	        
	    - From the peace offering, the priests were to offer a food offering of “the whole fat tail, cut off close to the backbone, and the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver.”
        
	2. PEACE OFFERINGS MADE WITH GOATS (3:12-16):
	    
	    - If an Israelite man brought a goat to be sacrificed as a peace offering, he was to bring the animal to the Tabernacle and lay his hand on it’s head before killing it.
	        
	    - The priests were to take the goat’s blood and throw it against the altar.
	        
	    - The “fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver” were to be burnt on the altar as a food offering.
        
- PROHIBITION AGAINST EATING FAT AND BLOOD (3:17): 
    
    - The Israelites were forbidden to eat fat and blood. (Leviticus 3:16 – “…all fat is the Lord’s.”) (Genesis 9:4 – “But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood.”)
### Insights
- The fellowship offering was meant to celebrate the fact that the Israelites had peace with God. Jesus bore our sins and made peace between us and God. This means we can approach God with ease and connect with him.
### Deeds
Again knowing that Jesus already died for our sins encourages me to relax and obey his commands.

