---
title: LEVITICUS 2 THE GRAINS OFFERING
date: 2025-01-24 13:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR,Leviticus]
tags: grain_offering
---

- **DEFINITIONS:**
	- **Frankincense** – An aromatic resin that is harvested from Boswellia trees. It has been used for generations to make incense and perfume.  
	- **First fruits** – In the Bible, the firstfruits refers to the first crops of an annual harvest.

### Facts
- THE DIFFERENT TYPES OF GRAIN OFFERINGS (2:1-7):
    
    - In addition to sacrifices of animals (Leviticus 1), the Israelites could bring grain offerings to the Tabernacle as sacrifices to the Lord.
        
    - If the grain was uncooked, it was to be ground into fine flour and brought to the priests with oil and frankincense poured on it (2:1-3).
        
    - If the grain was cooked in the oven, it was to be unleavened loaves mixed with oil or unleavened wafers smeared with oil (2:4).
        
    - If the grain was baked on a griddle, it was to be cooked with oil. When cooked, it was to be broken in pieces and oil poured on top (2:5-6):
        
    - If the grain was cooked on a pan, it was to be made of fine flour and oil (2:7).
    - All these were to be without Yeast
    
- INSTRUCTIONS FOR SACRIFICING GRAIN OFFERINGS AT THE TABERNACLE (2:8-13):
    
    - When the person offering the sacrifice had prepared the grain, they were to bring it to the tabernacle and give it to the priests.
        
    - The priests offered a portion of it to the Lord by burning it on the altar as a “food offering with a pleasing aroma to the Lord.”  The remaining part was kept by the priests.
        
    - The grain offerings were prohibited from containing Yeast(leaven) or honey. Yeast and honey were not to be burned on the altar as food offerings.
        
    - All grain offerings were to be seasoned with salt before being sacrificed.
        
- GRAIN OFFERINGS MADE AS AN OFFERING OF FIRST FRUITS (2:14-16):
    
    - If a grain offering was offered as an offering of first fruits (a special kind of food offering), it was to consist of fresh grain that was crushed and roasted with fire.
        
    - Oil and frankincense were to be put on it before handing it over to the priest to be offered.
### Insights
- The reason Yeast was not to be used is related to how sin enters the body and corrupts the whole system
### Deeds
1. Be careful to follow instructions God has given. He is Holy and he requires utmost obedience from me.
