---
title: Numbers 19
date: 2025-02-08 07:00:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [red-heifer, cleansing]
---

**WHEN and WHERE**:
God’s commands in Numbers 19 appear to have been given during the 40 years the Israelites were living in the wilderness as a punishment for their faithlessness (14:33-35). 

The Israelites were in the wilderness from approximately 1490-1450 B.C. 

The Israelites were camped in the wilderness of Paran at Kadesh (13:26), but God told them to turn around and go back into the wilderness “by the way to the Red Sea” (14:25). They remained in the wilderness 40 years.  

## Facts

_THE WATER OF CLEANSING (19:1-10):_ 
- In order to make a special water for the purification of unclean Israelites, God told Moses to have Eleazar kill a red heifer outside the camp. 
- Eleazar was to take the animal’s blood on his finger and sprinkle it 7 times in the direction of the Tabernacle. 
- The animal was to be burned along with cedarwood, hyssop, and scarlet yarn. 
- After completing these steps, Eleazar was considered unclean until the evening and was required to wash his clothes. 
- Another man was instructed to gather up the ashes of the red heifer and save them in a clean place outside the camp because they were to be used to make the “water of impurity.”

__ 11-22
- Anyone who touched a dead body was to be considered unclean for 7 days. 
- They were required to wash themselves on the 3rd and 7th day with the water of impurity. 
- Anyone who didn’t wash themselves as commanded was to be “cut off from Israel.”
- If a person died in a tent, everyone in the tent was unclean 7 days. 
- If a person touched a human bone or a grave, they were unclean 7 days. 
- In these instances, the water of impurity was to be mixed with fresh water and a clean person was to sprinkle the water on the unclean individual(s) with the hyssop plant. This was to be done on the 3rd and 7th day. 
- On the 7th day, after washing themselves and their clothes, the unclean individuals were made clean again.   

## Insights
- An animal blood and water were the way of getting rid of uncleanliness. The procedure illustrated here was a long one and the Israelties obeyed. My key insight here is God's holiness and obedience.  
In Hebrews 9:13-14, "_The blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled on those who are ceremonially unclean sanctify them so that they are outwardly clean. How much more, then, will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself unblemished to God, cleanse our consciences from acts that lead to death, so that we may serve the living God!_

## Deeds
I will humble myself before the saviour, confess and repent my sins and be cleansed by his blood.


