---
title: Numbers 35
date: 2025-02-11 20:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [levites' cities]
---

# FACTS
- Moses – God selected Moses to lead the Israelite nation from Egypt to Canaan. 

- Manslayer – A person who accidently killed another person. 

- Avenger of Blood – A person seeking vengeance against another person for killing their relative or friend. 

WHERE:
The Israelites were still camped on the east side of the Jordan River at the plains of Moab (34:1). These plains were located near Pisgah, across the river from Jericho. 

_CITIES FOR THE LEVITES (35:1-8):_
- On the plains of Moab, God and Moses discussed the inheritance of the Levites. When the Israelites inhabited Canaan, each tribe was to give some of the cities within their territory to the people from the tribe of Levi (because they didn’t receive a land inheritance). 

- Along with the city, the Levities were to receive 1000 cubits of pastureland on each side of the city for their livestock. In total, the Levites were to receive 48 cities total, 6 of which were designated cities of refuge. 

_CITIES OF REFUGE (35:9-34):_
- When the Israelites conquered Canaan, they were to designate 6 cities as “cities of refuge.”

- If a man killed another man by accident, he could flee to a city of refuge and receive protection from anyone who wanted to avenge the dead man’s blood. 

- If a person accidently killed someone (manslaughter), they would be safe in the city of refuge until the elders had an opportunity to hear their case. 

- The cities were not designed to protect murderers. Murderers were to be put to death because Innocent bloodshed polluted the land (35:33). 

- More than one witness was required to convict someone of murder. If the death was ruled accidental, the manslayer had to remain in the city of refuge until the death of the High Priest, at which point he could return to his home. If the manslayer left the city before the death of the high priest, the “avenger of blood” could kill him without legal consequences. 