---
title: Numbers 34
date: 2025-02-11 20:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [boundaries]
---

# FACTS
- Moses – God selected Moses to lead the Israelite nation from Egypt to Canaan. 

- Joshua – God selected Joshua to be the successor to Moses as the leader of the nation of Israel.  

- Eleazar – The High Priest of the Israelites. He was Moses’ nephew. 

- 10 Tribal Chiefs – 10 men were selected to help facilitate the division of the land of Canaan amongst the tribes. 

WHERE:
The Israelites were still camped on the east side of the Jordan river. They were probably still camped on the plains of Moab (31:12). These plains were located near Pisgah, across the Jordan River from Jericho. 

_THE BORDERS OF CANAAN (34:1-15):_

The first 15 verses of the chapter describe the borders of the land God promised to give to the Israelites as their “inheritance.”  
- The southern border was the Wilderness of Zin. 

- The eastern border was the Dead Sea (Salt Sea), the Sea of Galilee, and the Jordan River. 

- The northern border extended from the Mediterranean Sea to Mount Hor, but this Mount Hor was not the same mountain where Aaron died near the land of the Edom. The northern border stretched from Mount Hor to Lebo-hamath and terminated at a place called Hazar-enan.

- The western border of Canaan was the Mediterranean Sea. 

- The land within these borders was to be divided up between the remaining 9 1/2 tribes of Israel. The tribes of Gad, Reuben, and half the tribe of Manasseh had already received their inheritance on the east side of the Jordan River (Num 32). 

_MEN SELECTED TO OVERSEE THE DIVISION OF CANAAN (34:16-29):_

- God selected Joshua and Eleazar to oversee the division of the land of Canaan. 

- To assist these men, one chief from each of the 9 1/2 tribes was chosen. The names of the 10 men are listed in verses 19-28. 