---
title: Numbers 28
date: 2025-02-11 20:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [offerings]
---

# FACTS
CHARACTERS:
- Moses – God selected Moses to lead the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt and guide them to the land of Canaan.
- Eleazar – The High Priest of Israel. He became High Priest after the death of his father, Aaron. 
- The Priests – The priests were responsible for offering sacrifices to God in the Tabernacle. 

_DAILY OFFERINGS IN THE TABERNACLE (28:1-8):_   
These daily offerings were mentioned previously in Exodus 29, but the Israelites may have needed a reminder after 40 years. 

- Every day, a male lamb was to be offered in the morning and another one at twilight. 

- Along with each lamb, the priest was to offer 1/10 ephah of fine flour and 1/4 hin of oil as a grain offering. 

- A drink offering of 1/4 hin of wine was also to be offered with each lamb. 

_WEEKLY SABBATH DAY OFFERINGS (28:9-10):_
- On the Sabbath (Saturday), two male lambs a year old, 1/10 ephah of fine flour, oil, and a drink offering were to be offered in the Tabernacle. 

These were to be added to the daily sacrifices discussed in verses 1-8. 

_MONTHLY OFFERINGS (28:11-15):_
- At the beginning of each month, 2 bulls, 1 ram, and 7 male lambs were to be sacrificed to the Lord. 

- Along with each bull, there was to be a sacrifice of 3/10 ephah of flour mixed with oil and 1/2 hin of wine.

- Along with each ram, there was to be a sacrifice of 2/10 ephah of flour mixed with oil and 1/3 hin of wine.

- Along with each lamb, there was to be a sacrifice of 1/10 ephah of flour mixed with oil and 1/4 hin of wine. 

- Additionally, one male goat was to be offered as a sin offering. 

_PASSOVER OFFERINGS (28:16-25):_  
The day after the Passover, the Feast of Unleavened Bread began and lasted 7 days.
- On each of the 7 days, the priests were to offer the same offering that was prescribed for the monthly offering (28:11-15). 

- The 1st and 7th day of the feaster were a holy convocation to the Lord and the people were to abstain from doing ordinary work. 

_FEAST OF WEEKS (PENTECOST) OFFERINGS (28:26-31):_

- The day designated the Feast of Weeks was to be a day of Sabbath rest and no work was to be performed. 

- The priests were to offer the same offering that was prescribed for the monthly offering (28:11-15).