---
title: Numbers 25
date: 2025-02-11 20:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [balak, balaam]
---

# FACTS
CHARACTERS:
- Moses – God selected Moses to lead the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt and guide them to the land of Canaan. 

- Phinehas – The grandson of Aaron and son of Eleazar the High Priest. 

_ISRAEL IS PERSUADED TO WORSHIP BAAL OF PEOR (25:1-9):_
- The women of Moab befriended the Israelites and enticed them to participate in their idolatrous worship to a false God known as Baal. 

- God was extremely angry with the Israelites, and he told Moses to kill all the chiefs of Israel who had participated in the idolatry and hang their bodies in the camp. In addition, God sent a deadly plague to punish the people. 

- As God’s commands were being carried out and the people were weeping at the Tabernacle, an Israelites man brought an idolatrous Midianite woman into the camp in the sight of all the people. 

- Phinehas, the son of Eleazar the High Priest, was enraged by the man’s disrespect for God. He took a spear, went to the man’s tents, and killed both the man and the woman by piercing them through the stomach. 

- God withdrew the plague, but not before it had killed 24,000 Israelites. 

_GOD HONORS PHINEHAS (25:10-15):_ 
- The man Phinehas killed was Salu, a chief from the tribe of Simeon and the woman Phinehas killed was Cozbi, the daughter of a tribal leader in Midian. 

- God spoke with Moses and told him Phinehas’ zeal had “turned back” His wrath and saved many lives. 

- The Lord made a covenant with Phinehas’ household and promised the priesthood would continue through his descendants. 

_GOD COMMANDS THE DESTRUCTION OF THE MIDIANITES (25:16-18):_ 
- God told Moses to make war with the Midianites and destroy their nation because they intentionally led God’s people into idolatry. 