---
title: Numbers 23
date: 2025-02-11 20:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [balak, balaam]
---

# FACTS
WHEN and WHERE:

- The Israelites were camped on the border of the Amorites and Moabites near Pisgah (21:20; 23:14).

- These events occurred towards the end of the Israelites’ 40 years of wandering in the wilderness. 

- The Israelites were in the wilderness from approximately 1490-1450 B.C. 

_BALAAM’S FIRST DISCOURSE (23:1-12):_  
- Balaam told Balak to build 7 altars and sacrifice 7 bulls and 7 rams. 

- Balaam left the king at the altars and went to meet with the Lord and God “put a word in Balaam’s mouth” and sent him back to the Balak.

- In verses 7-10, rather than cursing Israel, as Balak had asked him to do, he blessed the Israelites. 

- Balak was angry, but Balaam told him he was not at liberty to curse a people who God intended to bless. He asked Balak, “Must I not take care to speak what the Lord puts in my mouth?”

_BALAAM’S SECOND DISCOURSE (23:13-26):_  
- Balak invited Balaam to travel with him to another location overlooking the Israelite camp and to curse the people from there. They went to the field of Zophim, built 7 altars, and sacrificed a bull and a ram on each. 

- When this was complete, Balaam went to meet with the Lord and God put another “word in his mouth.”

- Balaam’s second “discourse” announced that God was not like fickle men who change their mind. God was intent on blessing Israel and Balaam could not revoke the blessing. 

- He described Israel as a lioness that would not rest until it had devoured its prey. 

- Balak told Balaam to stop speaking if he could not curse his enemies but Balaam told him he didn’t have a choice, he had to speak the words of God. 

_BALAAM’S THIRD DISCOURSE (23:27-30):_  
- Balak invited Balaam to yet another location to try to curse Israel a third time. He took Balaam to the top of Peor, overlooking the desert and they built 7 altars and sacrificed a bull and a ram on each altar. 

# INSIGHTS
- 