---
title: Numbers 26
date: 2025-02-11 20:35:00 +0300
category: [CBR, Numbers]
tags: [second census]
---

# FACTS
CHARACTERS:
- Moses – God selected Moses to lead the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt and guide them to the land of Canaan.
- Eleazar – The High Priest of Israel. He became High Priest after the death of his father, Aaron. 
- Caleb – He was one of the 12 spies selected to spy out the land of Canaan in Numbers 13. He encouraged the Israelites to put their faith in God and conquer the land. He was from the tribe of Judah. 
- Joshua – Also known as Hoshea. He was Moses’ assistant and accompanied Caleb to spy out Canaan (Numbers 13). 

_THE SECOND CENSUS OF THE ISRAELITES (26:1-51):_
- God told Moses and Eleazar to take a census of the people while they were camped in the plains of Moab. 

- It had been approximately 40 years since the census recorded in Numbers chapter 1.

-The census counted men 20 years and older who were capable of going to war. The tribes and their census numbers are listed below:

1. Reuben – 43,730
2. Simeon – 22,200
3. Gad – 40,500
4. Judah – 76,500
5. Issachar – 64,300
6. Zebulun – 60,500
7. Manasseh – 52,700
8. Ephraim – 32,500
9. Benjamin – 45,600
10. Dan – 64,400
11. Asher – 53,400
12. Naphtali – 45,400

- Total for all Tribes of Israel – 601,730

- Every Israelite who was counted in the first census had died in the wilderness. The only exceptions were Joshua and Caleb (26:64-65). 

_THE DIVISION OF CANAAN BETWEEN TRIBES (26:52-56):_
- When the Israelites conquered Canaan, the land was to be divided up between the tribes by casting lots. 

- The amount of land each tribe received depended on their population. 

_THE TRIBE OF LEVI (26:57-65):_
- The Levites were not included in the general census because they were set apart to serve God and they did not receive a portion of the land alongside their countrymen. 

- There were 23,000 males (1 month and older) in the tribe. 

_COMPARING THE 1ST AND 2ND CENSUS:_
- The census of Numbers 1 and the census of Numbers 26 took place approximately 40 years apart. 

1st Census Total – 603,550

2nd Census Total – 601,730

The population of fighting men in each tribe remained relatively stable except for the tribe of Simeon. In Numbers 1, Simeon had 59,300 fighting men and in Numbers 26, Simeon had 22,200 fighting men.